Re: BZ13264
   Plasmon dispersion in graphite: A comparison of current ab initio
   methods
   by Sean M. Anderson, Bernardo S. Mendoza, Giorgia Fugallo, et al.

Dear Dr. Anderson,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by our referee. Acceptance of
your paper for publication is likely, but we first ask you to consider
carefully the appended comments.

With your resubmittal, please include a summary of changes made and a
brief response to all recommendations and criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Jason T. Haraldsen
Associate Editor
Physical Review B
Email: prb@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prb/

Physical Review Research is now open for submissions! As an
introductory promotion APS is waiving publication charges for all
articles received in 2019 and published in this new open access,
multidisciplinary journal.

https://journals.aps.org/prresearch
@PhysRevResearch on Twitter

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Second Report of the First Referee -- BZ13264/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In the revised version of their manuscript, Anderson and colleagues 
have addressed in detail my technical criticisms (I am the first 
referee) and the recommendations of the second reviewer. Regarding the 
latter, I feel the changes are adequate. In the shortened paper the 
motives are clearer and the text is more readable and easy to follow. 
Regarding my own criticisms, it appears that my misgivings about 
convergence were in fact due to use of incorrect data for q->0 in the 
initial manuscript. I am happy to see that the new datasets yield the 
correct quadratic dispersion. The authors have also provided a 
convincing and demonstration of their convergence tests for RPA (being 
a benchmark study, the authors may consider providing some of this 
analysis in the expanded supplementary material). 

Regarding the broadening, I accept their point that neglecting 
coupling results in intensities twice as large than without, this is 
clear. However, I still feel their comment 

"Methods that include these (BSE CP, ALDA CP, and RPA CP) have a peak 
intensity between 0.5 and 1, which compares favorably with experiment" 
should be better qualified or restated: the calculations using a 
smaller broadening in the convergence tests yield peaks of about 1.2 
at q=0 (unfortunately, there is no comparison provided for q=0.21). I 
don't mean to badger the authors on this - it only a small point - but 
it remains unclear if the favorable agreement with experiment is due 
to the somewhat arbitrary choice of broadening or not. 

Note some spelling errors have crept in: dielctric, calcations 

My main criticism of the work remains, however. It serves as a 
benchmark paper whose conclusions may only be important for few 
systems (semi metals?); there is little new physics. The authors 
acknowledge that it would be nice to provide such a benchmark on a 
newer system of interest, but rightfully note that such a study would 
introduce difficult convergence issues and that for experimental 
reasons, graphite is a perfect material to tackle. 

In summary, my opinion is that the paper may be suitable for 
publication in Physical Review.
