Dear Dr. Mendoza,

Thank you for submitting your manuscript "Ab initio calculation of the
depth-dependent optical reflectance from layer-by-layer atomic disorder" to
Physica Status Solidi B: Basic Solid State Physics.

You will be pleased to know that your manuscript has been reviewed and
recommended for publication pending satisfactory revisions. The reviewer
comments are attached below.

I invite you to respond to the reviewer comments and make the necessary
revisions to your manuscript.

To submit your revision, go to http://pssb-journal.edmgr.com/ and log in as an
Author using your username (********) and password. Your submission can be found
under the menu item "Submissions Needing Revision".

Please note that when you submit the revised version of this manuscript, you
will be asked to upload a zip archive containing the production data that will
be used if your manuscript is accepted. See below for more details.

When you submit your revised manuscript, please include a point-by-point
response to the reviewer comments in the "Respond to Reviewers" box, including a
list of changes made and a rebuttal to any comments with which you disagree. All
changes to your manuscript should also be highlighted in the main manuscript
file. The deadline for the submission of this revision is 04 Oct 2017.

Once we receive your revised manuscript, we will provide a final decision as
soon as possible.

Yours Sincerely,

Stefan Hildebrandt, Editor-in-Chief

P.S. To avoid delays in the processing of your manuscript please provide a pdf
as well as the source files (Word and separate image files if available or the
respective LaTeX/ EPS package). For preparation guidelines see http://onlinelibr
ary.wiley.com/journal/10.1002/(ISSN)1521-3951/homepage/2232_authors.html

If your manuscript includes Supporting Information, please upload this as a
separate file.

According to the style of the journal, the Experimental section should be placed
following the Introduction (not after the Conclusions). Please format your
manuscript accordingly. Extensive experimental details may also be submitted as
Supporting Information.

For Review or Feature Articles, please send an eye-catching color image (4 cm x
4 cm) and a short text (50-60 words) summarizing your article for a non-expert
audience that could be used in the Table of Contents.

-------------------------------
REVIEWER REPORT:
-------------------------------

EVALUATION:

Reviewer's Responses to Questions

Please rate the importance of this submission.

Reviewer #1: Should be published in this journal

Reviewer #2: Should be published in this journal

--------------------

Please rate the originality of this submission.

Reviewer #1: Acceptable level of new results

Reviewer #2: Acceptable level of new results

--------------------

Please rate the scientific and technical content of this submission.

Reviewer #1: Fully consistent and accurate

Reviewer #2: Fully consistent and accurate

--------------------

Please rate the length of this submission.

Reviewer #1: Concise and correct length

Reviewer #2: Concise and correct length



COMMENTS TO AUTHOR:

Reviewer #1: The authors present a simple theoretical model to predict the
change in reflectance due to local subsurface disorder (strain). By introducing
rigid shifts of single atomic layers perpendicular to the surface planes and
analysing the dependence on the layer depth, they predict increases in
reflectance and relate these to compression of bonds near the surface.
Calculations are performed using DFT with optical response at the single
particle level. One motivation for this work is to explain the influence of
strain waves induced by coherent acoustic phonon spectroscopy experiments. The
paper is well written and, although it is hard to determine how useful the model
will be to interpret real experiments, it is a good starting point and suitable
for publication. I have some minor issues that should be resolved and/or
commented on.

1) When the authors mention moving the z-coordinate "for each individual
   atom"/"only a single atom that is perturbed" they actually mean a complete
   atomic layer, as the slab is periodic in the xy direction. As written, it
   seems like a local defect.
2) The authors have previously described techniques for layer-by-layer analysis
   of optical reflectance (Ref 4). Can they apply this to provide a real space
   picture of the strain wave?
3) What are the limitations of the approach, is it limited to high index
   surfaces only?
4) I suggest rewriting "Many-body interactions can be included using the
   scissors approximation" along the lines of "Many-body interactions can be
   included in an approximate manner using a scissors operator approach".
5) Page 4, paragraph "We propose..." seems to suggest that compressed bonds lead
   to a lower absolute reflectance. I understand from their results that the
   reflectance always increases for any perturbation, and thus the authors mean
   a smaller increase in reflectance (with respect to the elongated bonds)
6) Acknowledgements: Should N. Talk be N. Tolk?


Reviewer #2: In this work, the authors have simulated atomic disorder, due for
instance to a longitudinal acoustic phonon, by performing ab initio simulations
of the reflectance anisotropy spectra for a silicon surface. Within a supercell
approach, atoms have been moved away from their equilibrium position and
absorption spectra have been calculated. Numerical results are presented for the
comparison between the perturbed structure and the relaxed structure.The
dependence in terms of the depth of the displaced atom, the size of the
displacement or the frequency is carefully analyzed and an interpretation is
provided, based on a simple harmonic oscillator model.


As noted by the authors, this an very simplified approach for describing the
real physical response of the system in a pump-probe experiment, it provides
some general features and some useful trends for possible interpretations. I
believe that the results presented in this paper are important. For these
reasons, the paper could be published, essentially in its present form in
Physica Status Solidi b.

I have a question that could be addressed:

A scissor shift has been used in the calculation. Different values have been
used for the supercell structure and for the bulk system. An explanation for
this choice should be given, together with some references.

--
Dr. Stefan Hildebrandt, Editor-in-Chief 

Physica Status Solidi B: Basic Solid State Physics
Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA
Rotherstrasse 21
10245 Berlin
Germany
T +49 (0) 30 47 031 331
F +49 (0) 30 47 031 334
http://pssb-journal.de/

*****
Get all the latest news on breakthroughs in healthcare, sustainability, and
technology, read features and opinion pieces on the key challenges faced by
research, and watch our exciting new video abstracts at
www.AdvancedScienceNews.com


*****
Wiley-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA - A company of John Wiley & Sons, Inc. -
Location of the Company: Weinheim - Trade Register Mannheim, HRB 432833.
Chairman of the Supervisory Board: John Kritzmacher. General Partner: John Wiley
& Sons GmbH, Location: Weinheim - Trade Register Mannheim, HRB 432296 - Managing
Directors: Sabine Steinbach, Dr. Guido F. Herrmann.
*****


*****
