We thank the referees for their timely and useful suggestions. The responses to
each comment are included below, and the relevant changes are marked in red in
the manuscript PDF file.

We hope that our paper will be fit for acceptance into the journal after this
revision.

Reviewer #1
-----------

C1. When the authors mention moving the z-coordinate "for each individual
atom"/"only a single atom that is perturbed" they actually mean a complete
atomic layer, as the slab is periodic in the xy direction. As written, it seems
like a local defect.

Response: We are in total agreement. To clarify this point, we have added a
sentence to the second paragraph of page 1, modified the caption of Fig. 1 on
page 3, and modified a sentence in paragraph 3 of page 3.


C2. The authors have previously described techniques for layer-by-layer analysis
of optical reflectance (Ref 4). Can they apply this to provide a real space
picture of the strain wave?

Response: Yes, this is possible. However, we decided to omit this from the
current work since we have plans to include a layer-by-layer analysis in a
future manuscript featuring a more in-depth theoretical treatment of CAP.
Nevertheless, we have added a small comment in the Conclusions pertaining to
this.


C3. What are the limitations of the approach, is it limited to high index
surfaces only?

Response: Other than those inherent within the independent-particle DFT LDA
approach, we foresee no other limitations for our model.


C4. I suggest rewriting "Many-body interactions can be included using the
scissors approximation" along the lines of "Many-body interactions can be
included in an approximate manner using a scissors operator approach".

Response: We agree that your proposed phrasing is clearer, and have changed the
relevant sentence (on page 2) accordingly.


C5. Page 4, paragraph "We propose..." seems to suggest that compressed bonds
lead to a lower absolute reflectance. I understand from their results that the
reflectance always increases for any perturbation, and thus the authors mean a
smaller increase in reflectance (with respect to the elongated bonds)

Response: We are in total agreement, and have amended the last line of paragraph
4 on page 4 to indicate that we are indeed only talking about an increase in
reflectance.


C6. Acknowledgements: Should N. Talk be N. Tolk?

Response: Correct, thank you for pointing that out. We have amended the typo.



Reviewer #2
-----------

C1. A scissor shift has been used in the calculation. Different values have been
used for the supercell structure and for the bulk system. An explanation for
this choice should be given, together with some references.

Response: Thank you for your comment. We have added some text at the end of the
first paragraph of the 'Results' section on page 3 to clarify our choice of
scissors shift values.
