In this paper, we perform a systematic study of the macroscopic dielectric function and EEL spectra for graphite, in order to elucidate the pi and pi + sigma plasmon dispersion behavior as a function of the momentum transfer q for two non-equivalent paths that encompass the first four Brillouin zones. We carry out these calculations within both TDDFT (with two exchange-correlation functionals) and the BSE; additionally, we explore the effects of using the complete excitonic Hamiltonian (with all e-h pairs and antipairs), and within the TDA (neglecting antipairs). The resulting spectra are consistent with previous results featured in the literature, and we accurately discern which peaks derive from plasmonic behavior or from interband transitions. However, as each method considers very different approximations, the peak positions and intensity change substantially. We study these characteristics and compare them against several experiments taken in different decades and by different groups. Our calculated spectra present clear trends that follow the physical origins of the observed peaks. Given the large energy range that we consider in this work (from 0 to 45 eV), the large momentum transfer values (up to q = 3.22 A^{-1}, and the comparison of several methods with various experiments, we consider this to be a thorough benchmark for future reference.

Overall, we provide an overview of ab initio methods that are considered state-of-the-art at describing the optoelectronic properties of solid state systems. We have applied these methods on graphite, which offers an excellent benchmark material for this type of study. The knowledge of the inverse dielctric function for the wide range of momentum transfer and energy (beyond the experimental range available today) that we provide, gives useful insights also for other methods which are intrinsically based on the concept of Coulomb screening, like many-body GW (and beyond) approaches. We also present useful computational benchmarks for each calculation, so the reader can evaluate the justify the use of a particular method vs. computational expense.

By far, most of the cited works appear in either Phys. Rev. Lett. or Phys. Rev. B, for which we think that this article would have excellent visibility in Physical Review B as well.
