Re: BD13947
   Ab initio modeling of optical functions after strain wave perturbation
   for defect detection
   by Sean M. Anderson, Bernardo S. Mendoza, and Ram\'on Carriles

Dear Dr. Anderson,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by our referee. It
seems likely that we can accept your paper for publication without
further review, provided you make changes that we judge to be
in accordance with the appended comments (or other satisfactory
responses are given).

With your resubmittal, please include a summary of changes made
and a brief response to all recommendations and criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Yan Li
Associate Editor
Physical Review B
Email: prb@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prb/

Opening for submissions soon, Physical Review Research is a new open
access, multidisciplinary journal offering the Physical Review
experience and quality you value and trust. Learn more and sign up for
alerts.

https://journals.aps.org/prresearch
@PhysRevResearch on Twitter

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Second Report of the First Referee -- BD13947/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In the revised version of the manuscript, the authors have addressed 
my most important worry about their approach (I am the first referee) 
by making an explicit connection to the time evolution of the signal 
in Fig. 4. The new material about the electron density around the 
defect level is a welcome addition to the manuscript and should help 
the reader visualize the system. Besides the following minor point, I 
recommend that the manuscript is accepted for publication in Phys. 
Rev. B. 

Both the second referee and I raised the issue of the different 
scissors shifts used for surface and bulk susceptibilities. Most 
importantly, the authors notes in their reply that the exact value 
used has a negligible influence on the final results. However, they 
have not modified the manuscript to explain better the values used 
(except to clarify that 3.4eV is the experimental "direct" optical 
gap, as I requested, corresponding to the E1 critical point in the 
JDOS), and any reader with familiarity with DFT calculations of 
silicon would have a reaction similar to ours. Having looked at the 
references cited by Referee 2, as well as the authors' previous 
publications on the system, I have to say I cannot remotely understand 
where they obtain the value of 0.98 eV for bulk Si from. To quote: 

"a scissors shift of 0.98 eV was used for the bulk calculation in 
order to adjust the theoretical band gap to the experimental value of 
3.4 eV for the direct band gap." 

This implies the position of E1 in their DFT-LDA calculation was 
2.4eV. This is far lower than any calculation I have seen in the 
literature. Or to put things differently, a bulk Si GW calculation 
yields shifts ranging from 0.7eV (Botti PRB 
10.1103/PhysRevB.69.155112) to 0.95eV (Adolph PRB 
10.1103/PhysRevB.53.9797). This yields spectra that overshoot the 
experimental spectra by a significant amount: hence Schmidt (PRB 
10.1103/PhysRevB.61.7604) uses a 0.5eV shift to match with experiment, 
as the second referee notes. Li (Ref 59) even state "Self-energy 
corrections to surface states are larger in magnitude by 0.2--0.3 eV 
than those to bulk states in the same energy range", which would imply 
the bulk correction is smaller, not larger, than the surface 
correction of 0.7eV. 

Last, it is anyway odd/inconsistent to use a GW-computed value for the 
surface, and an empirical value for the bulk. 

I, therefore, urge the authors to rectify this matter, either in a 
resubmitted version or a footnote added at the proof stage. It does 
NOT preclude acceptance in Phys Rev. B, but in my opinion, it looks 
like an error that can easily be corrected.
