Re: BZ13264
   Plasmon dispersion in graphite: A comparison of current ab initio
   methods
   by Sean M. Anderson, Bernardo S. Mendoza, Giorgia Fugallo, et al.

Dear Dr. Anderson,

The above manuscript has been reviewed by two of our referees.
Comments from the reports appear below.

These comments suggest that the present version of the manuscript is
not suitable for publication in the Physical Review. However, if you
can provide a convincing response to the criticism, we will give
further consideration. Please accompany any resubmittal by a summary
of the changes made and a brief response to all recommendations and
criticisms.

Yours sincerely,

Jason T. Haraldsen
Associate Editor
Physical Review B
Email: prb@aps.org
https://journals.aps.org/prb/

Meet the editors at the APS March Meeting in Boston
https://www.aps.org/meetings/march/index.cfm   #apsmarch

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the First Referee -- BZ13264/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Anderson and colleagues present a theoretical study of the momentum 
dependent EELS on graphite, comparing their results with published 
experimental data. The work compares three methods, BSE, ALDA, and 
RPA, assuming the same starting band structure, and investigates also 
the effect of the neglect of coupling between positive and negative 
energy e-h pairs (Tamm-Dancoff approximation). The main conclusions 
are that in graphite BSE gives the best results and the coupling term 
is important. The paper is clearly written, although somewhat 
repetitive in parts and somewhat long considering many of the points 
mentioned have been discussed in previous works and several similar 
calculations have been reported elsewhere (the references given appear 
adequate). 

As the authors note, the work is a "systematic study" on a "benchmark 
material". However, the conclusions drawn about coupling may be 
relevant only for a semi-metal like graphite, a material which is of 
limited interest nowadays in comparison to its 2D counterpart (the TDA 
appears to work well in other materials like BN, for instance). It is 
also disappointing that the authors do not discuss the different 
plasmon dispersions, in particular, their BSE-CP data appears linear 
(Fig. 4) instead of the measured parabolic behavior in q, while other 
approximations appear to yield the correct dispersion. 

Other specific points: 

1. Both Ref 65 [Marinopoulos 2004, Fig 10] and Ref 51 [Liou, Fig 5c,d] 
report EELS calculations on graphite within RPA and ALDA. The 
agreement with experiment in those works is quite perfect. Instead, 
the present work, with the same approximations, yields worse 
agreement. 

2. The author's data at q->0 seems out of step with the q>0 data, 
clearly shown in Fig. 6, and in Fig. 4. This makes it harder to judge 
the dispersion. Is there a problem of convergence, or of methodology? 
Are the EELS peak positions determined from the eigenvalues or from 
the broadened curves? 

3. I am skeptical about the authors claims regarding the peak 
intensity (IV A) comparison with experiment since their broadening is 
very large (0.6eV); again, previous works found more reasonable 
intensities within RPA and ALDA. These three points in fact suggest a 
lack of convergence in the authors' calculations. While I appreciate 
that BSE-CP is a very tough calculation, it is unfortunately a serious 
point in a work whose main message requires a careful comparison of 
different approaches. 

In summary, although the paper has appeal as a reference work, I have 
some doubts about the numerical convergence of some of the data, much 
of the physics "message" has been published elsewhere, the novel 
features are quite limited in scope being related mostly to 
methodology.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Second Referee -- BZ13264/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

The paper "Plasmon dispersion in graphite: A comparison of current ab
initio methods" by Sean M. Anderson, Bernardo S. Mendoza, Giorgia
Fugallo, and Francesco Sottile presents a comparison of different
numerical methods to determine the dielectric function and EELS
spectrum of a solid. The techniques are applied to the calculation of
the plasmon spectrum of graphite and compared to experimental results
obtained over the past several decades to serve as a benchmark for the
use of these methods for future systems. The methods include TDDFT,
adiabatic LDA (ALDA), RPA and the solution of the Bethe-Salpeter
equation (BSE). They also compare the full method including
interactions between excitons with the Tamm-Dancoff approximation.

The article is a careful study of involved methods applied to a
well-known system. As such, it is worth publishing as it may serve as
a reference for calculations made on new materials. Overall the
article is well written, but a few revisions are needed before the
article can be accepted for publication in Physical Review B.

1. The second half of the abstract should be more explicit about the
results of the article (TD is not good, BSE good but time-consuming,
etc.) Also, the abstract has the statements "We accurately discern"
and "We accurately compare". What does "accurately" mean in this
context? What does "discern" mean in this context?

2. The introduction describes the methods and difficulties related to
the calculation of optical spectra in solids. The paper then states
that it compares these methods as they apply to graphite. There is not
much new physics but the paper focuses on a comparison of methods.
What is unclear in the introduction is if the authors were motivated
to do their study by a present-day physical problem or system. Was the
main interest only to compare different numerical methods? Or was it
to study the plasmon spectrum of graphite? In short, the introduction
should be more explicit about the underlying motivation. It would also
have been desirable to apply the methods to a novel material that is
presently under investigation.

3. There is a typo on the left hand side of Eq. (8).

4. When describing the results of Fig. 3, the authors state "however,
the nature of the stretching causes a redistribution of the band
energies, which causes changes in both the peak position and
intensities." The statement should be qualified: is the redistribution
improving or worsening the description of the EEL spectrum?

5. In the description of Fig. 5 the authors compare their results with
the "Zeppendfeld" and "Liou" data and state that they are closer to
the former. What conclusion can be drawn from that observation?

6. The figure captions should be more elaborate and self-explanatory.
When reading them, one should be guided to the important features of
the figure. For Figs. 6, 8, 9, 10 it would be useful to have a column
label (either above or below the column) that specifies "with
coupling" and "without coupling" (the authors will likely have a
better keyword).

Once the above points have been addressed, the paper can be
recommended for publication.
