Date: Tue, 19 Apr 2016 11:27:55 -0400
Subject: Your_manuscript BP12969 Anderson

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the First Referee -- BP12969/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

Anderson and colleagues present a follow up to their PRB 2015 paper
[Ref. 19] which described a theoretical framework that allows
quantitative calculation of surface second harmonic generation at the
independent particle level. The main concepts treated in that work -
scissors shift, nonlocal terms in the matrix elements, and a slab cut
function, within a single formulation - are demonstrated here by means
of ab initio calculations on Si(111)-(1x1):H and compared with various
experimental data. In addition, the authors report on other technical
aspects such as three vs two layer models and sensitivity to atomic
geometry. The text is very well written and easy to read. The theory
section repeats only the essential formulae of Ref 19, but otherwise
reports no new theoretical development beyond what is reported in e.g.
Refs 19 and 24-27. The calculations and conclusions deserve
publication in some form, since practical SSHG calculations beyond the
IP level remain out of reach for most systems and researchers in the
near future, but I consider it a borderline work for PRB. In the
following, I raise some issues that should nonetheless be addressed.

1. One interesting demonstration in Ref. 19 was the sensitivity of
computed spectra (both lineshape and energy) to the chosen value of
the scissors shift. There, the authors used 0.5 and 0.63 eV for clean
Si(100)-(2x1), but here they use 0.7 eV for Si(111)-(1x1):H as taken
from a published GW calculation. Since the authors neglect
temperature, local field, and excitonic effects, this choice is
somewhat arbitrary. However, they cannot claim such good agreement
with experiment unless they show such a comparison again here (at
least for one dataset). The authors should also comment on why GW
eigenvalues/transition energies are appropriate here, when in linear
optics the GW+BSE transition energies are needed.

2. Related to this, I find that the authors overinterpret their
results and frequently overstate the agreement with experiment. For
instance:

- Page 5: "relaxed coordinates have an improved peak position". Can
the authors really claim that agreement is improved, in light of the
IP approximation used?

- The authors on Page 6 refer to Ref. 46, Dadap PRB 1996 for "It is
well known that temperature causes shifting in the peak position of
SHG spectra". That work does not discuss temperature. I believe the
authors intended to refer to Dadap PRB 56 13367 (1997), which shows
several spectra redshifting with higher T. Hence "Low temperature
measurements for the SHG yield will lead to more closely matched
results" does not seem to be correct - quite the opposite.

- Page 6: "the three layer model best reproduces both the lineshape
and intensity" is again somewhat generous, since the bulk/2L spectra
have near identical lineshapes ("mostly consistent", as written on
page 7). Such a conclusion might be valid after Fig. 7.

- Page 7: "inclusion of .. nonlocal part .. gives much better
comparison". Again, the evidence for this is tiny. I do not doubt that
the inclusion is formally correct, and perhaps for some other
material/pseudopotential essential, but the results presented here do
not justify such a strong conclusion. Furthermore, this point was
already well demonstrated in Ref. 19.

- The few speculative remarks on temperature and oxidation effects on
experimental SSHG spectra does not justify "Our comparisons also
indicate the effects of temperature and surface adsorption" in the
abstract, although they are acceptable in the text.

3. In all cases shown, the bulk model yields near identical lineshapes
and seems just as good as the 3L model except for a constant
underscaling of about 5. I suspect this is because the authors chose a
passivated surface with no surface states, so that all features appear
around E1 and E2. If the authors repeated such a comparison using the
Si(100)-(2x1) surface (used in Ref 19) they might demonstrate a
clearer difference between 3L and bulk. I think such a comparison is
most important here, even in the absence of experimental data.
Secondly: do the authors' calculations on Si(111)-(1x1):H demonstrate
that surface SHG, for a system without surface states, can be well
modeled simply from a bulk calculation (plus scaling of about ~5) and
use of the appropriate formulae? This seems to be a useful result in
itself.

4. Two broadenings are chosen. These also affect the intensities, of
course. The authors should justify their usage and value (a priori?)

5. The authors renormalize the surface dielectric function to the
volume of the slab, not the supercell. On page three, they describe
the slab as containing "front, back, subsurface regions...and between
these, a bulk region". Would it not be more precise, therefore, to
renormalize to the volume of the surface region? Or the half slab?
This point is not clear.

6. Page 8, "but with four times less intensity" should read "but with
eight times less intensity."

7. The temperature used in the experiments should be noted in each
figure caption (or on the figure), and not only in the text.

8. On page 8, local fields are mentioned as possibly being important
for the out of plane components. A sentence expanding on this (what
local fields are and why they are more important perpendicular to the
surface) would help a non expert.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
Report of the Second Referee -- BP12969/Anderson
----------------------------------------------------------------------

In this paper an ab initio calculation of surface second-harmonic
generation of Si(111)(1x1):H surface has been carried out using the
ABINIT pseudopotential code for the ground state calculation and the
DP code for the calculation of the nonlinear part of the
pseudopotential to the nonlinear susceptibility. Like in their
previous paper (see Ref. 19), they used the independent particle
approximation to include the scissors correction, the contribution of
the nonlocal part of the pseudopotentials, and a cut function to
extract the surface response to the calculation of the nonlinear
susceptibility tensor and the surface second-harmonic generation
(SSHG) yield. This work is therefore a continuation of their previous
work published in Phys. Rev. B 91, 075302. In this work they used
their previous results of the nonlinear susceptibility to calculate
the SSHG yield of Si(111)(1x1):H surface and compare the results with
various experiments. The scissors operator used seems to make their
calculation in fair agreement with experiments. However, it is
unfortunate that the details of their derivations of the SSHG yield
are put in a paper (Ref. 34), which is submitted, but the information
about the journal is missing. I suppose this is a mistake. I advise
the authors either to put this paper in arXiv.org or to put the
derivation in an appendix or supplementary information. This will be
helpful to the specialized reader. He (she) will be able to fully
derive their formulas, especially when their previous publication of
the SSHG yield (PRB 66, 195329) seems to be incorrect due to errors in
their previous formulas. The authors should also cite properly the
work of Z.H. Levine, published in PRB, who was among the first to
include the scissors correction and the contribution of the nonlocal
part of the pseudopotentials to the calculation of the nonlinear
susceptibility.

In conclusion, this is an interesting work, which gives a full
calculation of the SSHG yield within the independent particle
approximation. Unfortunately in its present state the paper is not
ready for publication in PRB (see above).

Minor points:

The authors should not repeat formulas which where already published
in their previous paper (Ref. 19), like equations 6a-d and many
others. Instead they should give more details about the derivation of
Eq. 2 and cite their previous paper whenever needed.

At the end of page 2, it is written that T^a,b _i = t ^a,b _i . Is
this a mistake?

Change all dk^3 to d^3k.
